# Jeff

Jeff is a chat bot built on the [Hubot][hubot] framework. It was initially
generated by [generator-hubot][generator-hubot], and configured to be deployed
on a self managed server. This is due to security concerns about the number of
credentials and proprietary code access hubot needs to perform various tasks.

[hubot]: http://hubot.github.com
[generator-hubot]: https://github.com/github/generator-hubot

### Running Jeff Locally

You can test your hubot by running the following, however some plugins will not
behave as expected unless their specific environment variables have been set.

You can start Jeff locally by running:

    % bin/hubot

You'll see some start up output and a prompt:

    [Sat Feb 28 2015 12:38:27 GMT+0000 (GMT)] INFO Using default redis on localhost:6379
    jeff>

Then you can interact with Jeff by typing `jeff help`.

    jeff> jeff help
    jeff animate me <query> - The same thing as `image me`, except adds [snip]
    jeff help - Displays all of the help commands that Jeff knows about.
    ...


### Scripting

An example script is included at `scripts/example.coffee`, so check it out to
get started, along with the [Scripting Guide](scripting-docs).

For many common tasks, there's a good chance someone has already one to do just
the thing.

[scripting-docs]: https://github.com/github/hubot/blob/master/docs/scripting.md

### external-scripts

There will inevitably be functionality that everyone will want. Instead of
writing it yourself, you can use existing plugins.

Hubot is able to load plugins from third-party `npm` packages. This is the
recommended way to add functionality to your hubot. You can get a list of
available hubot plugins on [npmjs.com](npmjs) or by using `npm search`:

    % npm search hubot-scripts panda
    NAME             DESCRIPTION                        AUTHOR DATE       VERSION KEYWORDS
    hubot-pandapanda a hubot script for panda responses =missu 2014-11-30 0.9.2   hubot hubot-scripts panda
    ...


To use a package, check the package's documentation, but in general it is:

1. Use `npm install --save` to add the package to `package.json` and install it
2. Add the package name to `external-scripts.json` as a double quoted string

You can review `external-scripts.json` to see what is included by default.

[npmjs]: https://www.npmjs.com

### hubot-scripts

Before hubot plugin packages were adopted, most plugins were held in the
[hubot-scripts][hubot-scripts] package. Some of these plugins have yet to be
migrated to their own packages. They can still be used but the setup is a bit
different.

To enable scripts from the hubot-scripts package, add the script name with
extension as a double quoted string to the `hubot-scripts.json` file in this
repo.

[hubot-scripts]: https://github.com/github/hubot-scripts

##  Persistence

The `hubot-redis-brain` plugin is used to persist data. You will need to have
a Redis installation available for this, but it is not necessary for local
testing (but no data will persist across a restart.

See the documentaion in the `hubot-redis-brain` plugin if you need to point at
a server other than the default.

## Adapters

At the time of writing we're using a modified HipChat adapter, as the current
official version is using outdated libraries that can cause compilation issues.
Check the adapters README for how to configure it.

There are many third-party adapters that the community have contributed. Check
[Hubot Adapters][hubot-adapters] for the available ones.

To run hubot with a specific adapter:

    % bin/hubot -a <adapter>

Where `<adapter>` is the name of your adapter without the `hubot-` prefix.

[hubot-adapters]: https://github.com/github/hubot/blob/master/docs/adapters.md

### Deploying

Use `npm install` a reference to this repo (tarball advised) to install hubot
and all associated plugins. You will also need to create an init script to run
hubot as a service, and manage all the necessary environment variables.
